Although the Clone Troopers of the Republic
were effective in repelling and even advancing
against the overwhelming forces of the Separatist
droid armies during the clone wars, their
ability to serve on the frontlines was very
time constrained due to their accelerated
aging.
Most surviving clones were gradually forced
into retirement following the creation of
the Galactic Empire, with nearly all of them
slowly and quietly dying off in the background
as their age overtook them.
But who were the oldest and last surviving
Jango Fett clones that we know of?
First in Canon, we have 2 clones that we know
for sure lived long enough past even the events
of Return of the Jedi, which took place 23
years after the Clone Wars.
First is Rex, who originally was the Captain
of the 501st Legion before he deserted following
Order 66 and his escape with former Jedi Padawan
Ahsoka Tano.
At some point he met up with Greger and Wolffe,
and they together lived inside an old AT-TE
walker on the planet Seelos for about the
next 15 years.
Over these years Rex’s accelerated aging
takes its toll by giving him bright white
grandpa hair and perhaps even baldness, but
nonetheless Rex was still capable enough to
endure and fight on the frontlines after he
joined the Rebel Alliance’s fight against
the Empire.
We know that he survived at least till the
Battle of Endor and was a commander during
the ground attack, with most likely being
the Human soldier with a similar looking beard.
The other clone is actually Kix, who served
as a medic for the 501st Legion.
Nearing the end of the war, Kix discovered
the Sith Plot to destroy the Jedi after privately
investigating into Tup’s actions after he
randomly executed a Jedi mid battle.
Dooku caught wind of this and ended up sending
droids to capture Kix before he could tell
anyone in the Republic about his discoveries.
As he was captured Kix was placed inside a
stasis pod.
The Separatist transport that was carrying
him was later attacked by Republic forces
and it was forced to make a random hyperspace
jump, which caused it to crash on a remote
planet.
Still inside the stasis pod upon the crash,
Kix would remain completely frozen for the
next 50 or so years until he would be released
upon being uncovered by a pirate crew that
was led by Sidon Ithano.
After regaining his full coherence and being
brought up to speed with galactic events of
the past half decade, Kix ended up joining
the pirate crew.
He is the only known Jango Fett clone to still
be alive at that point.
In Legends, we also have two clones who were
known for surviving a very long time, their
names being Able and Jaing Skirata.
Able was a regular Clone infantryman who served
under Shaak Ti during the war.
During one of his missions, he was shot down
and was eventually left stranded on an uninhabited
planet after his comrades were killed around
him in battle.
With no way of contacting the outside galaxy,
he was forced to survive on his own for the
next 20 years.
It wouldn’t be until after the Battle of
Yavin, that he would finally make contact
with other people.
A skirmish between the Rebels and the Empire
took place on his planet near his campsite.
Believing the stormtroopers to be clones in
new armor, he ran to them in his phase 1 armor.
But the Imperial Officer leading the attack
believed him to be a rebel trick, so he ordered
his men to fire upon the clone.
Able escaped the blaster fire from the Imperials,
but was left confused with why they would
attack him.
He eventually ran into Luke Skywalker and
another Rebel.
Initially puzzled at what was happening around
him, Luke and his friend explained to the
clone of what had transpired in the galaxy
in the past 20 years.
They told him of the Jedi’s fall and the
rise of the Empire, whom were the very enemy
they were fighting at this very moment.
Luke then showed the clone that he was a Jedi,
just like one Able fought under during the
clone wars.
This prompted the clone to join them and help
the rebels escape the planet from the Empire.
After successfully escaping, Able decided
to join the Rebel Alliance and to work within
the Alliance Intelligence Core.
He later became a SpecOps Marine for the Rebels,
and he continued to fight against the Empire
for about a few months before meeting his
end by a horde of Rakghoul when he accompanied
Luke Skywalker to an unidentified moon and
confronted the unstable ancient Jedi Celeste
Morne.
Jaing Skirata on the other hand was one of
the first Jango Fett clones created, but due
to his high signs of independent thought,
he and his brothers were almost terminated
until a Mandalorian trainer by the name Kal
Skirata stepped in and saved them from death.
Jaing became a Null-class Advanced Recon commando
and would ultimately desert the Clone Army
and became a mandalorian following Order 66.
He and his brothers would all be adopted by
Kal Skirata as they joined his clan.
He and his clan would go on to provide a safe
haven to some Jedi survivors and later discover
research that allowed them to reverse engineer
the accelerated aging process so they could
age normally.
This allowed them to live normal lives and
not be worried about their bodies deteriorating
at twice the rate.
Jaing Skirata was still alive 40 years after
the battle of Yavin putting him in his seventies.
It’s unknown if his brothers were still
alive, but at that point Jaing didn’t seem
like he was up to much and his only noteworthy
action was helping heal Boba Fett and later
attend a Mandalorian wedding.
Speaking of which, we also have Boba Fett
who also was a clone of Jango, though he didn’t
undergo any of the special modifications as
the rest of them.
Although many believed he met his end after
falling into the Sarlacc Pit, he actually
was able to escape due to his Mandalorian
armor and was able to fully recover before
getting back into the bounty hunting business.
Boba has had no official death date in Legends,
but was noted for still being an active Bounty
Hunter as late as 44 years after Yavin, which
would put him in his mid seventies.
Before we end the video we want to give a
shoutout to Robert Shane for letting us use
his artwork for the video.
Be sure to check out his deviantart page as
he creates a ton of stellar star wars artwork.
Link to it is in the description below!